README.md, before:

# How to Make a Datapack for Ars Elixirum

To start, create an `elixirum` folder, referencing the mod
---

### Index

- [Essences](#add-essence)
- [Tags](#tags)
- [Pydatapack](#pydatapack)

---

## Folders Structure

```bash
data/
└── elixirum/
    ├── elixirum/
    │   ├── configured_elixir
    │   ├── elixir_prefix
    │   ├── essence
    │   └── ingredient_preset
    └── tags/
        ├── block/
        │   └── heat_sources.json
        └── item/
            ├── essence_blacklist.json
            ├── essence_whitelist.json
            └── potion_shelf_placeable.json
```

---

## Elixirum Folder

Inside the `elixirum` folder, create another `elixirum` folder, which will contain everything we will make.

### Configured Elixir Folder

Contains an effect (referencing a pre-made essence) that can have multiple variants. You can only modify *amplifier* and *duration*.

The file name must be the essence name.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "variants": [
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 0,
        "duration": 60,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ],
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 2,
        "duration": 180,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ],
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 5,
        "duration": 360,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

---

### Elixir Prefix Folder

Applies a random prefix to the essence (e.g., "Devastating elixir of strength"). It takes a lang key from the lang file and applies it as a prefix.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "key": "effect_prefix.elixirum.absorption_assimilating",
  "source": "minecraft:absorption"
}
```

---

<a id="add-essence"></a>

### Essence Folder

The most important folder. Here you will add your effects with the following parameters:

- **category**: can be "NONE", "OFFENSIVE", "DEFENSIVE", "ENHANCING", "DIMINISHING".
- **max_amplifier**: sets the maximum amplifier the essence can have. The essence can have any amplifier below this number.
- **max_duration**: sets the maximum duration the essence can have. The essence can have any duration below this number.
- **mob_effect**: the ID of the effect you want to generate (e.g., "farmersdelight:comfort").
- **required_ingredients**: minimum amount of ingredient to make this essence non-pale.
- **required_quality**: minimum amount of quality to make this essence non-weak.

The file name must be the effect name (without namespace).

**Template (generated by my code):**

```json
{
  "category": "enhancing",
  "max_amplifier": 3,
  "max_duration": 1200,
  "mob_effect": "farmersdelight:comfort",
  "required_ingredients": 1,
  "required_quality": 10
}
```

---

### Ingredient Preset Folder

Contains every ingredient with a set effect and weight.
> **Note**: Almost every item in the game will have a randomly generated effect based on the seed.

**Parameters:**

- **essences**: contains every essence that the set item will have
  - **ESSENCE_ID** (using "elixirum:" as namespace): weight
- **target**: contains the item ID

The file name must be the item name.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "essences": {
    "elixirum:saturation": 20
  },
  "target": "minecraft:blue_orchid"
}
```

---

<a id="tags"></a>

## Tags

With tags you can filter ingredients, make items placeable on shelves and make heat sources compatible with cauldrons.

Here's how:

---

### Filter Ingredients

You can filter item to make them as blacklisted ingredients by adding the tag `#elixirum:essence_blacklist`.

You can also add item to a whitelist by adding the tag `#elixirum:essence_whitelist`, though this doesn't seem to do anything.

---

### Making Items Placeable On Shelves

You can make item placeable on shelves by adding the tag `#elixirum:potion_shelf_placeable`

---

### Adding New Heat Sources

You can make an heat source compatible with Ars Elixirum's cauldrons by adding the tag `#elixirum:heat_sources`

By default the compatible heat sources are the following:

> heat_sources.json

```json
{
  "values": [
    {
      "id": "#minecraft:fire",
      "required": false
    },
    {
      "id": "#minecraft:campfires",
      "required": false
    },
    "minecraft:magma_block"
  ]
}
```

Here is an example, i've added the create blaze burner as an heat source:

![Blaze Burner under Glass Cauldron](/blaze_heat.png)

---

<a id="pydatapack"></a>

## Template pydatapack for Ars Elixirum

```python
import pydatapack as pdp

# Creates a new datapack with the following parameters (NAME, DESC, PACK_FORMAT, VERBOSE_LOG)
# You can also use pdp.versionToPack(VERSION) to automatically get the correct pack_format
# (E.G pdp.versionToPack("1.21.1") => 48)
test = pdp.Datapack("TestElixirum", "Test for Ars Elixirum", 48, True)

# Creates a generic load mcfunction. Parameters (DATA [OPTIONAL])
test.def_load()

# Creates a new essence with the following parameters (EFFECT_ID, MAX_AMPLIFICATION, MAX_DURATION, CATEGORY, MIN_INGREDIENTS, MIN_QUALITY)
test.elixirum.new_essence("farmersdelight:comfort", 3, 1200, "enhancing", 1, 10)

# Creates a new preset ingredient with the following parameters (ESSENCE [can be string or list], INGREDIENT_ID, WEIGHT)
test.elixirum.new_ingredient_preset("elixirum:comfort", "create:experience_nugget", 20)

# Adds the '#elixirum:heat_sources' tag to the block. Parameters (BLOCK_ID)
test.elixirum.new_heat_source("create:blaze_burner")

# Generates the datapack
test.save_data()
```

All tags will be added asap

##### DVOA1 | 2025

Commit message:

Refactor README for clarity and add new methods for managing item tags in packcreator.py

README.md, after:

# How to Make a Datapack for Ars Elixirum

## Key Concepts

> NOTE: These key points are not the only things this guide provides. These are only the most important concepts to make more relevant things in the datapack.

- [Adding Custom Essences](#add-essence)
- [Tags](#tags)
- [How to Use Pydatapack](#pydatapack)

## Folders Structure

```bash
data/
└── elixirum/
    ├── elixirum/
    │   ├── configured_elixir
    │   ├── elixir_prefix
    │   ├── essence
    │   └── ingredient_preset
    └── tags/
        ├── block/
        │   └── heat_sources.json
        └── item/
            ├── essence_blacklist.json
            ├── essence_whitelist.json
            └── potion_shelf_placeable.json
```

---

## Elixirum Folder

Inside the `elixirum` folder, create another `elixirum` folder, which will contain everything we will make.

### Configured Elixir Folder

Contains an effect (referencing a pre-made essence) that can have multiple variants. You can only modify *amplifier* and *duration*.

The file name must be the essence name.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "variants": [
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 0,
        "duration": 60,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ],
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 2,
        "duration": 180,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ],
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 5,
        "duration": 360,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

---

### Elixir Prefix Folder

Applies a random prefix to the essence (e.g., "Devastating elixir of strength"). It takes a lang key from the lang file and applies it as a prefix.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "key": "effect_prefix.elixirum.absorption_assimilating",
  "source": "minecraft:absorption"
}
```

---

<a id="add-essence"></a>

### Essence Folder

The most important folder. Here you will add your effects with the following parameters:

- **category**: can be "NONE", "OFFENSIVE", "DEFENSIVE", "ENHANCING", "DIMINISHING".
- **max_amplifier**: sets the maximum amplifier the essence can have. The essence can have any amplifier below this number.
- **max_duration**: sets the maximum duration the essence can have. The essence can have any duration below this number.
- **mob_effect**: the ID of the effect you want to generate (e.g., "farmersdelight:comfort").
- **required_ingredients**: minimum amount of ingredient to make this essence non-pale.
- **required_quality**: minimum amount of quality to make this essence non-weak.

The file name must be the effect name (without namespace).

**Template (generated by my code):**

```json
{
  "category": "enhancing",
  "max_amplifier": 3,
  "max_duration": 1200,
  "mob_effect": "farmersdelight:comfort",
  "required_ingredients": 1,
  "required_quality": 10
}
```

---

### Ingredient Preset Folder

Contains every ingredient with a set effect and weight.
> **Note**: Almost every item in the game will have a randomly generated effect based on the seed.

**Parameters:**

- **essences**: contains every essence that the set item will have
  - **ESSENCE_ID** (using "elixirum:" as namespace): weight
- **target**: contains the item ID

The file name must be the item name.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "essences": {
    "elixirum:saturation": 20
  },
  "target": "minecraft:blue_orchid"
}
```

---

<a id="tags"></a>

## Tags

With tags you can filter ingredients, make items placeable on shelves and make heat sources compatible with cauldrons.

Here's how:

---

### Filter Ingredients

To add an item to the ingredient gen blacklist, you add the tag `#elixirum:essence_blacklist`.

You can also add item to a whitelist by adding the tag `#elixirum:essence_whitelist`, though this doesn't seem to do anything.

---

### Making Items Placeable On Shelves

You can make item placeable on shelves by adding the tag `#elixirum:potion_shelf_placeable`

---

### Adding New Heat Sources

You can make an heat source compatible with Ars Elixirum's cauldrons by adding the tag `#elixirum:heat_sources`

By default the compatible heat sources are the following:

> heat_sources.json

```json
{
  "values": [
    {
      "id": "#minecraft:fire",
      "required": false
    },
    {
      "id": "#minecraft:campfires",
      "required": false
    },
    "minecraft:magma_block"
  ]
}
```

Here is an example, i've added the create blaze burner as an heat source:

![Blaze Burner under Glass Cauldron](/blaze_heat.png)

---

<a id="pydatapack"></a>

## Template pydatapack for Ars Elixirum

```python
import pydatapack as pdp

# Creates a new datapack with the following parameters (NAME, DESC, PACK_FORMAT, VERBOSE_LOG)
# You can also use pdp.versionToPack(VERSION) to automatically get the correct pack_format
# (E.G pdp.versionToPack("1.21.1") => 48)
test = pdp.Datapack("TestElixirum", "Test for Ars Elixirum", 48, True)

# Creates a generic load mcfunction. Parameters (DATA [OPTIONAL])
test.def_load()

# Creates a new essence with the following parameters (EFFECT_ID, MAX_AMPLIFICATION, MAX_DURATION, CATEGORY, MIN_INGREDIENTS, MIN_QUALITY)
test.elixirum.new_essence("farmersdelight:comfort", 3, 1200, "enhancing", 1, 10)

# Creates a new preset ingredient with the following parameters (ESSENCE [can be string or list], INGREDIENT_ID, WEIGHT)
test.elixirum.new_ingredient_preset("elixirum:comfort", "create:experience_nugget", 20)

# Adds the '#elixirum:heat_sources' tag to the block. Parameters (BLOCK)
test.elixirum.new_heat_source("create:blaze_burner")

# You can also add the following tags with their respective methods:
# - '#elixirum:essences_blacklist' : DATAPACK.elixirum.add_to_blacklist(ITEM)
# - '#elixirum:essences_whitelist' : DATAPACK.elixirum.add_to_whitelist(ITEM)
# - '#elixirum:potion_shelf_placeable' : DATAPACK.elixirum.make_shelf_placeable(ITEM)

# Generates the datapack
test.save_data()
```

##### DVOA1 | 2025
